### Singleton
#### How is a singleton implemented?
The purpose of singleton is to control object creation, and thus limiting the number of instance to only one. In Java, singleton is implemented by creating a class with a private constructor, and a static accessor method to get the instance. For example
```Java
public class Singleton {

   private static Singleton singleton = new Singleton( );

   /* A private Constructor prevents any other
    * class from instantiating.
    */
   private Singleton() { }

   /* Static 'instance' method */
   public static Singleton getInstance( ) {
      return singleton;
   }

   /* Other methods protected by singleton-ness */
   protected static void demoMethod( ) {
      System.out.println("demoMethod for singleton");
   }
}
```
When calling the getInstance() method, the only object created during initialization will be passed to the program. An example using the singleton in the main program is:
```Java
// File Name: SingletonDemo.java
public class SingletonDemo {

   public static void main(String[] args) {
      Singleton tmp = Singleton.getInstance( );
      tmp.demoMethod( );
   }
}
```
In Swift, the following code implement singleton
```Java
final class Singleton {

    // Can't init is singleton
    private init() { }

    // MARK: Shared Instance

    static let shared = Singleton()

    // MARK: Local Variable

    var emptyStringArray : [String] = []

}
```
Basically the init() function is made private so that a new instance cannot be created from outside.
#### Can it be made thread-safe?
Java singleton can be made thread-safe in three different ways.
Create the instance variable at the time of class loading. It is easy to implemented, but the resource is used early, and the client application cannot pass any argument.
Synchronize the method to get instance. This approach can pass parameters, and lazy initialization is achieved, but it can slow down the performance.
Otherwise, thread-safe can be achieved by using synchronized block inside the if loop, so that the synchronization overhead can be minimized.
In Swift, the example given above is thread-safe by the definition of let.
#### Can the singleton instance be lazily instantiated?
In java, singleton can be lazily instantiated, an example is shown as following:
```Java
public class ClassicSingleton {

   private static ClassicSingleton instance = null;
   private ClassicSingleton() {
      // Exists only to defeat instantiation.
   }

   public static ClassicSingleton getInstance() {
      if(instance == null) {
         instance = new ClassicSingleton();
      }
      return instance;
   }
}
```
In this way, the ClassicSingleton class maintains a static reference to the singleton instance, while the instance is not created until the getInstance() method is called for the first time. This ensures the singleton instance is only created when needed.
In Swift, the lazy coding can be easily achieved. This approach above supports lazy initialization because Swift lazily initializes class constants and variables automatically.
